Self-organizing feature map (SOM) to analyze a real-world data set. The data set, fetalHealth.csv, contains features extracted from cardiotocograms
describing fetal health. The objective is to apply SOM to conduct an explorative data analysis of a given data set.

The Dataset
Reduction of child mortality is reflected in several of the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals and is a key indicator of human progress. The UN expects that by 2030, countries end preventable deaths of newborns and children under 5 years of age, with all countries aiming toreduce under-5 mortality to at least as low as 25 per 1000 live births. Parallel to notion of child mortality is of course maternal mortality, which accounts for 295000deaths during and following pregnancy and childbirth (as of 2017). The vast majority of thesedeaths (94%) occurred in low-resource settings, and most could have been prevented. In light of what was mentioned above, cardiotocograms (CTGs) are a simple and cost accessibleoption to assess fetal health, allowing healthcare professionals to take action in order to prevent child and maternal mortality. The equipment itself works by sending ultrasound pulses and reading its response, thus shedding light on fetal heart rate (FHR), fetal movements, uterine contractions and more. This dataset contains 2126 records of features extracted from cardiotocogram exams, which were then classied by three expert obstetritians into the following three classes: Normal (coded as 1.0 in the dataset), Suspect (coded as 2.0), Pathological (coded as 3.0). The target feature is fetal health.
